Maha's Overleaf edits: non-word choice only (#254)
symbiotic-engineering/MDOcean: pubs/applied-ocean-research-model/sections/module-details.tex

For $|\gamma_s|$, an additional multiplicative factor of $e^{-k (T_s - T_{s,nom})}$ is applied to account for the decrease of excitation with depth.
%\hl{I suspect this imposes a constraint on $D_d$ needing to be similar to the nominal design, see notebook 3/20/26 referencing analysis from 4/4/25.}

> Computing the float coefficients in a different way than the spar and coupling coefficients introduces the possibility of violating physical requirements of the solution.

Author: confirm moved to appendix

\end{table}

Describing functions assume a certain time-domain nonlinear signal shape and then calculate the fundamental amplitude of that signal for use in a typical frequency-domain simulation.
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    The two signals where describing functions are used are both force signals.

>     For a force signal, the fundamental amplitude is the most relevant harmonic because not only is it typically the largest amplitude, but it also undergoes the least amount of filtering by the low-pass plant and therefore contributes the most to power production.

Author: bring this sentence back

\end{equation}
The PTO kinematics and dynamics are yet to be specified, currently represented by generic impedance matrix $\mathbf{Z}_p = \mathbf{B}_p+\frac{\mathbf{K}_p}{i\omega}$.

> Equations \eqref{eq:eom-freq-domain}-\eqref{eq:intrinsic-impedance} can be represented as a multiport circuit.

Author: confirm appen

    |S| &= \sqrt{P^2 + Q^2} = \frac{1}{2}|\hat{e} \hat{q}^*| = \frac{1}{2}|Z| |\hat{q}|^2 = P \sqrt{1 + \left(\frac{\Im(Z)}{\Re(Z)}\right) ^2  }
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}

> where the port is terminated with complex impedance $Z$, and ${}^*$ refers to the conjugate transpose.

Author: confirm appen

\end{equation}
The average, peak, and minimum powers over a wave period are then:
\begin{equation}\label{eq:power-avg-peak}
    p_{avg} = P, \quad p_{pk} = P + |S|, \quad p_{min} = P - |S|
\end{equation}
where the port is terminated with complex impedance $Z$ and $(\,)^*$ denotes the conjugate transpose.

To capture non-dynamic power losses such as those in an electrical drive, an additional constant efficiency $\eta$ describes the gain between the average generator electrical power and average absorbed electrical power.
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
If the generator cascade matrix is not used (i.e. $[\mathbf{a}]_{\tau\Omega\leftarrow VI} = \mathbf{I}$), this efficiency can also be used to approximate losses in the generator itself.
This will be done in \cref{sec:validation-benchmarking}, setting $\eta=80\%$ to maintain consistency with the RM3 design assumption of \cite{RM3} to facilitate comparison and validation. 
Note that this is not necessarily equivalent to an assumption that the generator itself has constant efficiency, since controllers with reactive terms ($K_l\neq 0$) spend some time expending energy, which reverses the direction of the generator efficiency.

> The average efficiency is assumed to also apply to the peak powers, though this is not guaranteed in general for the same reason.

Author: confirm appen

& & d &= \hat{V}_{s,th}
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
where the linear equality constraint $\vec{c}^{\,*}\vec{x} = d$ enforces the WEC and PTO dynamics through a voltage current relationship at the generator electrical port, and the quadratic inequality constraints 

> $\vec{x}^{\,*}\mathbf{Q}_i\vec{x} 

Author: ensure eq in appen

\begin{aligned}
    \vec{p}_{d}(y,t) &= \frac{1}{2}\rho_w \vec{C}_d ~\vec{v}_{rel}(y,t) |\vec{v}_{rel}(y,t)| \\     
    &= \frac{1}{2}\rho_w \vec{C}_d ~|\vec{\hat{V}}_{rel}(y)|^2 \cos(\omega t+\angle \vec{\hat{V}}_{rel}(y)) \left| \cos(\omega t+\angle \vec{\hat{V}}_{rel}(y))\right|\\
    &\approx \frac{1}{2}\rho_w \vec{C}_d ~|\vec{\hat{V}}_{rel}(y)|^2\frac{8}{3\pi} \cos(\omega t+\angle \vec{\hat{V}}_{rel}(y))
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
where the last line of \cref{eq:drag-pressure} applies the describing function approximation.
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    Computation of the relative velocity uses the following expression for the incident wave velocity phasor in finite depth water evaluated at the body draft, with $\vec{T}=[T_{f,2},T_s]$ collecting the bottom draft of the float and spar:

>     \begin{equation}\label{eq:wave-velocity-phasor}

Author: make sure eqn isn't double defined in thesis version

        \vec{\hat{V}}_{wave}(y) = \frac{H}{2} \frac{g k}{\omega} e^{-k\vec{T}} e^{-iky}
    \end{equation}
\else

> where the last line of \cref{eq:drag-pressure} applies the describing function approximation. 

Author: repeats 789

> where the last line of \cref{eq:drag-pressure} applies the describing function approximation. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

        \vec{\hat{V}}_{wave}(y) = \frac{H}{2} \frac{g k}{\omega} e^{-k\vec{T}} e^{-iky}
    \end{equation}
\else
where the last line of \cref{eq:drag-pressure} applies the describing function approximation. 

> Computation of the relative velocity uses the following expression for the incident wave velocity phasor in finite depth water evaluated at the body draft, with $\vec{T}=[T_{f,2},T_s]$ collecting the bottom draft of the float and spar:

Author: confirm appen

\begin{equation}
\vec{\hat{V}}_{wave}(y) = \frac{H}{2} \frac{g k}{\omega} e^{-k\vec{T}} e^{-iky}
\end{equation}
\fi
The time-domain nonlinear waveform and describing function approximation for the drag pressure/force are compared in Figure~\ref{fig:desc-fcns}(b).
The amplitude of the sinusoidal approximation equals $\frac{8}{3\pi}\approx0.85$ times the peak of the nonlinear waveform.

> Strip theory allows integration of the spatially-dependent infinitesimal drag force vector $d\vec{F}_d$ over the wetted surface area $A_{wet}$.

Author: confirm appen

> The integrals of \cref{eq:drag-coeffs} can be expressed in terms of standard nondimensional integrals detailed in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-drag}.

Author: this should at least mention keyword strip theory

Author: ```suggestion
Using strip theory, the integrals of \cref{eq:drag-coeffs} can be expressed in terms of standard nondimensional integrals detailed in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-drag}.
```

The resulting magnitude and phase of WEC motion are obtained by numerically iterating the state-dependent coefficients $\mathbf{B}_{d}$ and $\vec{\gamma}_{d}$.
Further derivation, convergence details, and control implications are discussed in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-drag}.
\fi

%\subsubsection{Power Saturation}
%Equation~\eqref{eq:mech-power} shows that the power peak to maximum ratio is at minimum two for a damping controller, 
%\hl{describe}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsubsection{Energy Production}

> The analysis thus far has either been sea-state agnostic (\cref{sec:geom}) or applied separately to each individual sea state (\cref{sec:hydro,sec:dynamics}).

Author: ```suggestion
The analysis thus far either is sea-state agnostic (\cref{sec:geom}) or applies separately to each individual sea state (\cref{sec:hydro,sec:dynamics}).
```

\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
where the last line of \cref{eq:drag-pressure} applies the describing function approximation.
The time-domain nonlinear waveform and describing function approximation for the drag pressure/force are compared in Figure~\ref{fig:desc-fcns}(b).
The amplitude of the sinusoidal approximation equals $\frac{8}{3\pi}\approx0.85$ times the peak of the nonlinear waveform.

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
Using strip theory, the integrals of \cref{eq:drag-coeffs} can be expressed in terms of standard nondimensional integrals detailed in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-drag}.
These integrals are computed numerically, and for applications like optimization where the simulation must be run many times, they are pre-computed for a range of nondimensional input values and accessed via a lookup table to reduce runtime.

The resulting magnitude and phase of WEC motion are obtained by numerically iterating the state-dependent coefficients $\mathbf{B}_{d}$ and $\vec{\gamma}_{d}$.
Further derivation, convergence details, and control implications are discussed in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-drag}.

> \else

Author: non journal version  still appears to not mention strip theory?

    \hat{\xi}^*\hat{\xi} - H\Re(e^{iky}\hat{\xi}) < \Delta z^2-\left(\frac{H}{2}\right)^2
\end{equation}
for relevant vertical body dimension $\Delta z$ and horizontal coordinate $y$, depending on the wave parameters and body diameter and oscillation phase.

> For operational waves, $\Delta z$ for float slamming is taken as $T_{f,1}$ rather than $T_{f,2}$ since in addition to preventing slamming on the slanted surface of the float, this maintains constant waterplane area and thereby avoids unmodeled nonlinearities in the hydrostatic stiffness and Froude-Krylov excitation force.

Author: confirm appen

\subsection{Economics}\label{sec:econ}
The common economic metric $LCOE$ is calculated as the ratio of annualized expenditures to the annual energy production $AEP$:
\begin{equation}\label{eq:lcoe}
    LCOE = \frac{CAPEX\cdot  FCR + OPEX}{AEP}
\end{equation}
where the numerator consists of the up-front capital expenditure $CAPEX$, annualized via a fixed charge rate $FCR$, plus an annual operational expenditure $OPEX$.
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    The fixed charge rate incorporates the effect of device lifetime as well as a variety of financial values affecting the time-value of money such as tax rate, interest rate, depreciation, and how much of the project is financed with debt (loans) compared to equity (investors).
\fi

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    The MDOcean economics model aims not to predict the precise cost breakdown of a given design but to accurately reflect the scaling of cost with design variables to facilitate design optimization and tradeoff analysis.
    With this in mind, the model lumps costs into categories that are either constant or scale with design, and the constant costs and scale factors are tuned to match more detailed cost breakdowns.

>     The cost data chosen for tuning is the RM3 Cost Breakdown Structure (CBS) \cite{neary_reference_2014} (\cref{tab:CBS} in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-econ}).

Author: need this sentence in journal case

\else
The MDOcean economics model aims not to predict the precise cost breakdown of a given design but to accurately reflect the scaling of cost with design variables to facilitate design optimization and tradeoff analysis.

> With this in mind, the model lumps costs into categories that are either constant or scale with design, and the constant costs and scale factors are tuned to match more detailed cost breakdowns.

Author: ```suggestion
With this in mind, the model lumps costs into categories that are either constant or scale with design, and the constant costs and scale factors are tuned to match more detailed cost breakdowns.
The cost data chosen for tuning is the RM3 Cost Breakdown Structure (CBS) \cite{neary_reference_2014} (\cref{tab:CBS} in \appendixname~\ref{sec:appendix-econ}).
```

\fi

Since the RM3 CBS only applies to a single WEC design, MDOcean extends its scope to capture the scaling of structural cost (category 1.4) with the volume of structural material $V_{struct}$, and the power take off (PTO) cost (category 1.5) with the peak electrical power $P_{pk,elec}$ and force $F_{max}$.

Some cost components assumed constant in the model would scale with design in reality, and modifying the model to reflect this is an area for future work.
For example, installation and decommissioning costs (categories 1.7 and 1.8) could scale with the device maximum dimension since a larger device requires a larger ship, but this is not included due to the difficulty of determining dimension thresholds.
Likewise, the mooring and foundation costs (category 1.3) could scale with storm surge force, and the replacement parts and consumables costs (categories 2.5 and 2.6) could scale with the PTO power and force as the PTO capital costs do.

> \ifdefined\DISSERTATION

Author: should reference further discussion in appendix
